Welcome back, I hope you enjoyed
the section 15 challenge.
I'm going to give you my solution
here, and we'll walk through it.
As always, there's a lot of
different ways to do this.
So if your solution is different
from mine, it's probably just fine.
So I'm in the section 15 workspace
in the ChallengeSolution project.
So I didn't change the account or
the savings account classes at all.
So why don't we start with
the checking account class.
This is one of the new
classes that we added.
So let me open up the checking
account header file, and let's
go through this real quickly.
Now in this case, the checking account
doesn't add any new attributes, right.
So a checking account is an account.
I chose to derive this from account
because the checking account has
the name and it's got a balance.
The only difference here is that
when we withdraw, we're doing
a $1.50 flat fee, check fee.
Okay, so other than that it's
really, really very similar.
We've got our const expressions
here, which are just our
compile time constants.
Here we've got our constructor
that expects a name.
And if it's not supplied, we'll
use our default here, a balance.
And that's it, right.
The per check fee is
not a per object thing.
This is a class thing.
So this is why it's a
static cost expression.
If it was on a per account basis
and obviously you'd want that to
be an attribute and you'd want
to pass it into a constructor.
So we've got that.
We've got our withdraw method
because we need to override
the behavior for withdraw to
deal with the per check fee.
The deposit method is fine.
We don't need to change that
at all because the way we do
deposits is the same way that
an account does a deposit.
Hopefully, one of the things that you
notice when you derive these classes
from existing classes is the amount
of code you have to write is really
minimal in many cases, right, because
all you're doing is specializing.
The other thing we did here
was we created that overloaded
insertion operator that works with
a checking account that just makes
it really easy to display those.
Okay, so that's it.
Let’s take a look at
the implementation.
And as you can see, there's
really very little code here.
First of all, let's
look at the constructor.
So there's my checking
account constructor.
It expects the name and the balance.
And I need to initialize the
account part of me, right
because I'm derived from account.
So here I'm invoking my base
classes constructor and it's the
one that takes care of name and
balance I'm just passing it over.
And when this comes back,
we're initialized, right.
At that point, that's all.
That's all we need for
a constructor here.
Now what about the withdraw method.
Well, here we're definitely
overriding the withdraw method.
So here's the withdraw method for the
new class my checking account class.
It still expects an
amount to withdraw.
And all we're doing is we're saying
okay whatever that amount is I'm
just adding the per check fee to it,
which is a 1.50 dollar in this case.
So whatever, I want to withdraw
I'm just adding the 1.50 dollar.
And then I'm letting the
account class do the withdrawal,
just like we've done before.
And again, I'm returning
what it returns.
So if it fails, I'll return false.
If it succeeds, I'll return true.
And then the last thing we'll
do is our output operator
here, our insertion operator.
This time it expects
a checking account.
And actually we could have used
used a regular account here,
right because we're not really
adding anything in this class.
So even if it got sliced,
it's okay because we're
not adding anything at all.
So that's it.
That's a pretty simple implementation
of that checking account.
Now let's take a look
at the trust account.
So here we have our trust account.
And you can see that the trust
account is derived publicly
from a savings account.
And that's because a trust
account has a name, a
balance and an interest rate.
So a lot of the savings account
behavior will be perfect for that.
I'm overloading the insertion operator
here for a trust account as usual.
And now this code looks
a little lengthier.
And the reason for that is
all these constants here.
They're handy, right.
Here's our default balance,
here's a default interest rate.
You probably could make that
2 or 3% or something just
to get some more interesting
results, but I'll leave it at 0.
There's the bonus amount for a
deposit that's over 5000 dollars.
There's the threshold that's 5000.
The maximum withdrawals is 3,
and the most we can withdraw
is 20% of the accounts value.
So all that information is right
in here in these constants.
And the only thing that the
trust account really adds is
besides the business logic, of
course, is this attribute right
here the number of withdrawals.
So it will set that to 0 when we
create a trust account object.
And then every time we do a
withdrawal, that's successful,
we'll bump it up by 1.
And then when we do a withdrawal
and it's greater than 3, we'll just
fail right there, pretty simple.
Okay, so here's my constructor.
It expects as usual, a name, a
balance and an interest rate.
You can see that right there.
And it's got these defaults right
up here that it defaults to.
Here's my deposit, which I
obviously need to override
because I've get a 50 dollar
whenever I deposit 5000 or more.
And here's my withdrawal which
again I need to override because our
business logic says I'm only allowed
maximum of 3 withdrawals per year,
and each one is up to a maximum of
20% of the accounts value or balance.
Okay, so that's it.
Let's take a look at the
implementation file now.
And here's the implementation
file for the trust account.
You can see our
constructor is up here.
Again, we're receiving the name,
the balance and the interest rate.
And all of those guys are really
in my savings account part, right.
So I'm invoking my base
class constructor right here,
and I'm passing in name,
balance and interest rate.
Let it take care of
initializing itself.
When I come back, I do need
to take care of my attribute,
which is number of withdrawals.
So this is my responsibility, and
I'm setting that to 0 right here.
Okay, so now let's take
a look at the deposit.
So here's the trust
account deposit method.
Again, it expects an amount.
And all I'm looking for is that bonus
threshold which is 5000 dollars.
So if the amount deposited is greater
than or equal to that bonus threshold,
which in again in this case is
5000, then we're just incrementing
the amount to deposit by the bonus
amount which is the 50 dollars.
Simple as that, I invoke my base
classes deposit method because the
savings account knows how to deal with
the interest rate and the deposit.
And I'm returning right
here what it returns to me.
And then the last thing we'll
do is our withdraw method.
Again, the withdraw method's
important because it's got
some business logic here.
So I want to check -- and
again, here's the amount
that I want to withdraw.
So if the number of withdrawals
is greater than or equal to the
max withdrawals, which was that
constant, which was 3 or the amount
to withdraw is greater than the
balance times the threshold, right,
so that's the 20% right here.
If either one of those guys
is true, we don't do the
withdrawal, we return false.
Otherwise, we increment the number
of withdrawals, and we call our
savings account withdraw method
and pass in the account -- and
pass in the amount to withdraw.
So that's it.
You can see that we really
aren't writing a lot of new code.
We're specializing, we're tweaking,
we're refining if you will our
behavior based on our business logic.
And then the last thing is
this overloaded insertion
operator for trust account.
In this case, I'm also displaying
the number of withdrawals just
so that we have that information.
Okay, so that's the trust account.
So we've got our two new
accounts in the hierarchy now.
So the next thing I want to show you
is that account util file and the
functions that I modified in there.
So let's look at the changes I
made to the account util files.
And you can see that right here
I've added the function prototypes
for the checking account class
and the trust account class.
You can see that all this code is
really, really, really similar.
And you're going to love what's
going to happen in the next section.
We're going to be able to get
rid of all of this and just
create one version that works
for all of the accounts once
we use polymorphic functions.
But for now, let's just do
it this way so that we really
understand what's going on.
Again, remember, we're doing
static binding right now.
So the compiler is binding
the method calls to the actual
types of the objects that
it sees in at compile time.
So there are the function
prototypes for these guys.
It's very similar to
what we did before.
And the implementation
file right here, same idea.
I'll just scroll down
just a little bit.
And you can see here are the helper
functions for the checking account
class right here on line 64.
And if we scroll down a little
bit further, we've got the helper
functions for the trust account class.
And as I said, they're all exactly the
same except what's inside that vector.
Okay, so now let's look at the main.
Finally, here's the main and
the beginning is exactly the
same as it was before, right.
You remember we had the accounts tests
right here, so we put in some account objects
into a vector of accounts
and then we call display,
deposit and withdraw for those accounts.
We did that both for a regular
account and a savings account here.
And now we're just going
to do the same thing again
for a checking account.
So you can see here I'm
creating a vector of checking
account objects, right.
That's my template argument
right here, checking account,
and it's check accounts.
And I'm creating an empty checking
account, one for Kirk, one for
Spock and, one for Bones, let's say.
I don't want to give
Spock two accounts.
And that's it.
Then we're going to call display
for check accounts, deposit a 1000
into each one of those accounts and
withdraw from those accounts 2000.
And then finally, we're going
to do the trust account.
And the trust account, same idea.
I'm going to have a vector
of trust account objects.
And I'm going to create
four of them again.
I'm going to construct this
one with no initialization,
just like I've done before.
And then we'll create Athos, Porthos
and Aramis, the three musketeers.
And we'll create some
accounts for them.
We'll display them, deposit
into them and withdraw from
them, just like we did before.
And then the last thing I'm
doing is I'm simply calling
withdrawal five times.
So I'm looping five times,
and I'm calling withdraw
on those trust accounts.
So I expect those to fail,
right because I'm only allowed
to withdraw 3 times maximum.
And I can only withdraw
20% of the balance.
So I should see a
lot of failures here.
So let's run this.
And there's going to be a
lot of output to go through.
And you can see we have a clean
compile, no errors, no warnings.
And I'll scroll up here because
there's a lot of output to go through.
And this is what we
had earlier, right.
When we created just the regular
accounts here, we created four
of them: Larry, Moe Curly and
an unnamed account right up top.
We're going to display them.
That's what you're seeing right here.
Then we're going to
deposit a 1000 into them.
And that's this piece you see right
here, depositing two accounts.
And then we're withdrawing
2000 from them that's the
piece you see right here.
The first two fail because
there's insufficient funds.
So that's pretty straightforward.
That's exactly what the default
code was in the challenge.
So is this.
Here's my savings accounts.
Let me just scroll up to so
we can see that right here.
So we're creating those four
savings accounts for superman,
batman and wonderwoman.
There they are.
When we display them, we're depositing
a 1000 dollars into them here,
and then we're withdrawing 2000.
So of course, the first two will
fail because there's insufficient
funds, just like before.
Now here's the checking.
The checking is a little different
now because our withdraw methods
add a $1.50 service fee
or a per check fee, right.
So here we've got a checking account
for an unnamed checking account.
We've got Kirk, Spock and Bones.
And you can see them right here.
Right here is our display, right.
There's our unnamed checking
account with 0 balance.
There's Kirk, 0 balance, Spock
and Bones 2000 5000, respectively.
I'm depositing a $1000
into each account.
And then I'm going to withdraw 2000
from each account, exactly the
same we've - as we've done before.
So the first two are going to fail.
And you can see that the numbers
now are a little different right
because we are subtracting the
$1.50 per check fee here.
And these two don't because
the withdrawal failed.
But in this case, we did withdraw so
we're assessing the $1.50 fee.
So you can see that indeed
the specialized withdraw
method is being called.
Now finally, we've got
the trust accounts.
So there's our code for the
trust account, and I'll scroll
that up right about there.
So here I'm creating Athos Porthos
and Aramis and an unnamed trust
account, right here at the beginning.
And we're creating some different
balances as well as interest rates.
And then we're just displaying
the accounts and that's what
you're seeing here, right.
The unnamed trust account with
0 balance 0% interest rate.
It has no withdrawals yet.
Here's Athos Porthos and Aramis.
And you can see their
information right here.
Notice how all of them have
0 withdrawals because we
set that in our constructor.
Now we're going to call
deposit on each one of them
and deposit a 1000 dollars.
You can see that that's
successful all the way through.
You can also see that we've
got the bonus coming in here.
So finally, we withdraw 3000
dollars from each account.
The first two will fail
the first one because we
don't have sufficient funds.
The second one because we
are exceeding our 20% limit.
But the third and fourth
one are no problem at all.
You notice the withdrawals here
are now one whereas the withdrawals
on the failed ones are 0.
And then what I'm doing is
I'm just calling that same
withdraw function 5 times.
So there's 1's right here.
You can see the number of withdrawals
increasing and increasing and
finally, everything fails as we
expect right here
because we've exceeded the 3 withdrawals.
Okay, so that's it.
I'm sure your solution is different
from mine, and that's okay.
Take a look at my solution,
maybe yours is better.
If it's better, post it.
If you find a bug in mine, let me know
please, and I'll be glad to fix it.
So I hope you enjoyed this challenge.
I hope you understand a
lot about inheritance.
In the next section, we're going to
crank up the level in inheritance, and
we're going to talk about polymorphic
functions with inheritance and that's
going to make all of this even easier.
So stay tuned for that.